blog: Add Kubernetes-in-Kubernetes and PXE bootable servers farm blog post (#29676)
kubernetes/website: content/en/blog/_posts/2021-12-20-kubernetes-in-kubernetes-and-pxe-bootable-server-farm.md

---
layout: blog

> title: "Kubernetes-in-Kubernetes and our PXE bootable server farm"

Reviewer: This did cross my mind
```suggestion
title: "Kubernetes-in-Kubernetes and the WEDOS PXE bootable server farm"
```

I also hope to rustle up someone to review the article @kvaps

Author: well, why not

Looking at one of the certificates, eg. apiserver, you can see that it has a list of DNS names and IP addresses. If you want to make this cluster accessible outside, then just describe the additional DNS names in the values file and update the release. This will update the certificate resource, and cert-manager will regenerate the certificate. You'll no longer need to think about this. If kubeadm certificates need to be renewed at least once a year, here the cert-manager will take care and automatically renew them.

[![](/images/blog/2021-12-20-kubernetes-in-kubernetes-and-pxe-bootable-server-farm/screenshot03.svg)](https://asciinema.org/a/407280?t=25&autoplay=1)

Now let's log into the admin container and look at the cluster and nodes. Of course, there are no nodes, yet, because at the moment you have deployed just the blank control-plane for Kubernetes. But in kube-system namespace you can see some coredns pods waiting for scheduling and configmaps already appeared. That is, you can conclude that the cluster is working:

[![](/images/blog/2021-12-20-kubernetes-in-kubernetes-and-pxe-bootable-server-farm/screenshot04.svg)](https://asciinema.org/a/407280?t=30&autoplay=1)

> Here is the [diagram of the deployed cluster](https://kvaps.github.io/images/posts/kubernetes-in-kubernetes-and-pxe-bootable-server-farm/Argo_CD_kink_network.html). You can see services for all Kubernetes components: **apiserver**, **controller-manager**, **etcd-cluster** and **scheduler**. And the pods on right side to which they forward traffic.

Reviewer 2: Link to [diagram of the deployed cluster](https://kvaps.github.io/images/posts/kubernetes-in-kubernetes-and-pxe-bootable-server-farm/Argo_CD_kink_network.html) is a 404

In the PXE server configuration you can specify a timezone. You can also add an SSH key for logging in without a password (but you can also specify a password), as well as kernel modules and parameters that should be applied during booting the system.

Next comes the **nodePools** configuration, i.e. the nodes themselves. If you've ever used a terraform module for gke, then this logic will remind you of it. Here you statically describe all nodes with a set of parameters:

-   **Name** (hostname);
    
-   **MAC-addresses** — we have nodes with two network cards, and each one can boot from any of the MAC addresses specified here.
    
-   **IP-address**, which the DHCP server should issue to this node.
    

In this example, you have two pools: the first has five nodes, the second has only one, the second pool has also two tags assigned. Tags are the way to describe configuration for specific nodes. For example, you can add specific DHCP options for some pools, options for the PXE server for booting (e.g. here is debug option enabled) and set of **kubernetesLabels** and **kubernetesTaints** options. What does that mean?

> For example, in this configuration you have a second nodePool with one node. The pool has **debug** and **foo** tags assigned. Now see the options for **foo** tag in **kubernetesLabels**. This means that the m1c43 node will boot with these two labels and taint assigned. Everything seems to be simple. Now [let's try](https://asciinema.org/a/40728) this in practice.

Reviewer 2: Link to https://asciinema.org/a/40728 is a 404

### Demo

Go to [examples](https://github.com/kvaps/kubefarm/tree/v0.13.1/examples) and update previously deployed chart to Kubefarm. Just use the [generic](https://github.com/kvaps/kubefarm/tree/v0.13.1/examples/generic) parameters and look at the pods. You can see that a PXE server and one more job were added. This job essentially goes to the deployed Kubernetes cluster and creates a new token. Now it will run repeatedly every 12 hours to generate a new token, so that the nodes can connect to your cluster.

[![](/images/blog/2021-12-20-kubernetes-in-kubernetes-and-pxe-bootable-server-farm/screenshot05.svg)](https://asciinema.org/a/407282?autoplay=1)

> In a [graphical representation](https://kvaps.github.io/images/posts/kubernetes-in-kubernetes-and-pxe-bootable-server-farm/Argo_CD_Applications_kubefarm-network.html), it looks about the same, but now apiserver started to be exposed outside.

Reviewer 2: Link to https://kvaps.github.io/images/posts/kubernetes-in-kubernetes-and-pxe-bootable-server-farm/Argo_CD_Applications_kubefarm-network.html is a 404
